---
title: SFA model
author: Jianqi Huang
date: 2022-11-18
katex: true
---

## SFA

SFA, Stochastic Frontier approach, using the stoachastic to stimate the efficient 

without random component

$$
\begin{align}
y_i=f(x_i;\beta)\cdot TE_i
\end{align}
$$

the $y_i$ is the observed scalar output of the producer $i=1,2,\cdots$

`$x_i$` Is the vector of N

`$TE_i$` denotes the technical efficiency defined as the ratio of obsereved output to maximum feasible output 

`$TE_i=1$` shows that the `$i-th$` firm obtain the maximum feasible production.

`$TE_i<1$`  provides a measure of the shortfall of the observed output.



### The shock

the shock always from the unexpectated things, the weather changes, the economic adversities etc. 

We denote these effect as `$exp\{v_i\}$` using the common distribution.
`$$
y_i=f(x_i;\beta)\cdot TE_i\cdot exp\{v_i\}
$$`


we make it as the same formula: so the `$TE_i=exp\{-u_i\}$` where the `$u_i\ge 0$` sinced we require the `$TE_i\le 0$`
`$$
y_i = f(x_i;\beta)\cdot exp\{u_i\}\cdot exp\{v_i\}
$$`
the efficiency is `$\frac{f(x_i;\beta)\cdot exp\{v_i\}}{y}=exp\{u_i\}$`



### Adding the production function

**Setup**: we use the Cobb-Douglas form,
$$
Y=AL^\beta K^{\alpha}
$$
 so the log-y will be:
$$
\ln y_i=\beta_0+\sum_n\beta_n\ln X_{ni}+v_i-u_i
$$
where the `$v_i$` is the noise component

The `$u_i$` is the inefficiency component. together as a error term.

The expectation `$E(v)=v$`

So the efficiency in here is `$\frac{\ln y_i}{\beta_0+\sum\beta_n\ln x_{ni}+v_i}$`

In economic meaning, the `$u_i$` is the inefficiency of manufacturer, the inefficiency of technology etc. `$u=0$` is the most efficient.

`$v$` describes the factors that manufacturers couldn’t control.



### Estimating the parameter

Suppose v obey the normal distribution of the zero mean , the   `$\sigma_v$`  standard error.

$$v\sim N(0,\sigma_v^2)$$

$$u\sim N^+(0,\sigma_u^2)$$

they are independent. 

the derivative process is omitted. we can use the maximum likelihood estimation

the log-likehood function is:
$$
\ln L=constant-N\ln\sigma-\frac{1}{2\sigma^2}\sum_{i=1}^N\epsilon^2_i+\sum_{i=1}^N\varPhi(-\frac{\epsilon_i\lambda}{\sigma})
$$


we can get the first-order derivative:
`$$
\frac{\partial \ln \mathcal{L}}{\partial \sigma^2}=-\frac{N}{2\sigma^2}+\frac{1}{2\sigma^4}\sum_{i=1^N}\epsilon_i^2+\frac{\lambda}{2\sigma^3}\sum_{i=1}^N\frac{\phi_i}{\Phi_i}\epsilon_i=0
\\
\frac{\partial \ln \mathcal{L}}{\partial \lambda}=-\frac{1}{\sigma}\sum_{i=1^N}\frac{\phi_i}{\Phi_i}\epsilon_i=0\\
\frac{\partial \ln \mathcal{L}}{\partial \beta}=\frac{1}{\sigma^2}\sum_{i=1}^Nx_i\epsilon_i+\frac{\lambda}{\sigma}\sum_{i=1}^N\frac{\phi_i}{\Phi_i}x_i=0
$$`


This is a conflex non-linear equation. The analytical solution of the parameter cannot be given.

the usual method is using the concentrated maximum likehood estimation.

we can get
$$
\frac{1}{\sigma^2}\sum\epsilon\beta'x_i+\frac{\lambda}{\sigma}\sum\frac{\phi_i}{\Phi_i}y_i=0
$$


In real estimation we can estimate with iteration.

- we can use the OLS to get the estimator of `$\beta$`

- using the estimator of  `$\beta$` to calculate the estimator of `$\sigma^2$`
- The estimator of $\sigma^2$  substituting it into the simultaneous equations to estimate the `$\lambda$` and `$\beta'$`
- using the `$\beta$` last step to estimate a new `$\sigma^2$`. If the variation is small. We can accept the result. Or we repeat the above step.



## Source

[Wikipedia:The introduction to SFA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stochastic_Frontier_Analysis)